---
layout: post
title: Ice Cream
image: assets/images/ice_cream.jpg
---

"You like me, don't you?" 

The road was mostly empty, the shop where they bought their ice creams from slowly fading into the distance. A couple of people were out to take a walk after dinner, adding to the otherwise silent ambience of the surroundings. As she asked this question, he looked up from his ice cream towards her. She seemed slightly uncomfortable as she asked this question, her face staring into the distance. Her ice cream was still in her hand.

"What makes you ask this?" He asked, smiling a little. He had kind of anticipated this was coming.

"Well, it felt kind of off, you asking me out for ice creams in this cold weather, that too twice."

"You like ice creams dont you?" 

"Yeah I do..."

Silence pervaded their conversation for a while. Then he let out a deep sigh.

"Yes, you inferred correctly. I do like you". He smiled, feeling a bit uncomfortable making the admission. The last time he had let out his heart to somebody, the consequences had been...brutal.

She looked at him for a moment, and they kept on walking. The wind was cold, but his ears did not need protection. They felt hot.

"Do not get me wrong, but I am not ready for a relationship right now."

"Yeah I get it. I heard that you had a past...which, I am not going to ask about right now". He quickly added as he saw a shadow appearing on her face.

He took a deep breath, and continued, staring into the distance. "I know you don't like me the way I do. And I accept that. There is no need to."

"Although I have never been in one, I realise how difficult getting into a relationship can be. Getting intimate with somebody, letting them into your extreme personal space, effectively letting your lives intersect completely, with a complete stranger...this is extremely daunting. And this kind of scares me as well, for I have done an unimaginable amount of shit in my life which I am too embarrassed and scared to let new people know about."

"But there is a caveat. It is scary only when you let in a complete stranger into your life. Not when it is a dear friend, a friend you can trust, a trust built over days of communication and fun." He looked at her briefly, and proceeded to stare at the lapwing jumping near the footpath.

"Please dont get me wrong. I am not saying that it is no longer daunting to let that friend in. What if they leave? What if they judge me? What if they stop caring anymore? In this post-modernist world, these kind of things are quite common. However..." He now proceeded to look at her. She was looking at the road, facing away from him. "That means that friend never understood me in the first place." 

"See that is the purpose of these...outings, if you will...which I want to have with you. I want to know you better. I want to know the person behind the face which looks cute even when she is stressed, the soul which drives that very same woman to dance with even a high fever and still win the competition, and the heart..." He paused for a while, "that captivated the heart of another person who almost stopped believing in falling in love and made him love again".

"I am not asking you to reciprocate right now. No. I know it is not possible for you to do it at the moment at least. I just want to know you properly, as a friend, and then see where it leads to. And for me, that is more than enough. I feel happy just by having you accompany me in these trips, by being a friend who you can trust."

She briefly looked at him again, her face a bit red, and both of them looked towards the road again as they continued walking. Their ice creams had begun to melt.

_Hypothetical conversations in the mind of an overthinking philosopher_

_Pic credits: My friend Soumyajit Chattoraj_