---
layout: post
title: Kuch Sundays, aise bhi...
image: assets/images/sundays.jpeg
---

Sunday mornings are not always about the sun and going-out plans, you know? Sometimes it's about those sundays as well where you wake up with a headache. It's winter outside, the cold air is blowing down on your windows. The heater hums away softly, mechanically. It's 12:07 PM, and you missed breakfast. The headache pounds down harder, and you wake up cold and irritable. Your hair is dry and messy--not to mention, falling off with the same rate as the temperature outside as the month presses on. You need to take a bath--when was the last time you took one? Wambling you turn off the heater, make yourself some instant tea, postponing the bath by a couple of hours, or 3 if you feel like it. Opening the phone expecting a text from a certain somebody only to find none feels quite unfulfilling, making you question your life choices. Your forehead gets pounded even harder, and you go off to brush, coming to the realisation you should not have perhaps put off shaving your beard after all. After making sure you look respectable enough somewhere between a circus monkey and a homeless tramp, you make yourself some instant tea, alternating between reels and emails--the same old attention-drawing, soul-tiring, mind-numbing routine. Your head, after making you feel like you have been railed to the ground, is sore and finally gives fleeting moments of relief and pain, like some messed up "NSFW activities" (early morning NSFW sit well so you just censure yourself as the though comes up). It's 1:30 PM now, and before you miss lunch, you make your way to the dining hall. Mostly empty, you chat with somebody you know, while having some dal and roti which you feel you have been having for aeons now. Back home you would have had something a bit more palatable perhaps, fit for a Sunday family lunch. But you are not at home, and the person cooking the food doesn't even know your face, let alone your taste-preferences. You come back to your room, feeling suddenly motivated enough to try and indulge in some self-care today--after all, Sundays are meant to be spent relaxing right? Probably best to get started in that shaving routine you have been putting off on. The razor is right there, but it doesn't have charge--better check once before ending up like a half shaven ape, considering you look slightly better than a circus monkey anyways. It will take some time for the razor to charge, so why not get inside the blanket and wait? It is not that you will doze off while the razor finishers charging right? Definitely you will not wake up only when the sun has gone down, arriving at the realisation that you successfully spent your Sunday lazing around like a dog curled up in the winter sun? As you think this to yourself, imagine an invisible camera, zooming out from your now-comforatable figure under the blanket, making it's way into the open, on a cold Sunday in January, the wind howling away, stealing the moisture from anything in it's way, your razor still charging while you doze away again, thinking what could possibly go wrong. And oh, don't forget the laundry basket, quietly observing you from the corner of your dirty room, piled up and planned to be taken away for the last 2 days now.

----

Hey Guys, so I have been writing _something_ on this blog for sometime now, and I think it deserves a revamp now (mainly because it looks quite cluttred right now). So expect a new look soon, and I will keep you posted! See ya!!